# GITS

If you are confused about all the terms that start with 'git' then you are not alone.  Probably at the beginning of the bootcamp most people are getting these terms mixed up.  It would be nice to cover this stuff before getting into content but that is not really practical, and we need to discuss these things as they become important.  At the beginning of the bootcamp we are just trying to get things setup but after about 2 weeks we start the journey of you learning about the 'GITS'.

Here is a summary of the 4 Gits:  

1.  'git' - this is software that we had you install on your computer.  This software allows us to track changes in the documents we write - so it is a form of version control.  With git, we have the power to add documents to be tracked with a simple set of commands.  We can also revert changes, test code before adopting it, collaborate with others, and many other uses.  Because it is so flexible, it is used everywhere in the software and data fields.  To use git, we run the simple commands through the terminal or GitBash.  Ahhh, I just used another git word.  Let me explain that one next.   

1.  'GitBash' and terminal - if you know what a terminal is then this will make things easier.  Terminal is the common name given to the Mac OS command-line interface.  Basically, instead of using a graphical interface to work with your computer's operating system, we are using a text-only interface.  We can navigate through directories (aka folders), open text files and programs, and do many other things.  We can also interact with 'git' (the software) through terminal.  I like this much better than using a graphical program that would let me interact with git - I feel that I have much more control about what is going on and understand what is happening based on the feedback messages that I get from the terminal.  Notice I have only talked about MacOS so far.  Windows does not run a command-line like terminal unless we install and run 'GitBash'.  This program lets windows users have a command-line interface that works the same as terminal.  So when we say terminal or Gitbash, then Mac users and Windows users should go to their respective command-line program.  

1.  'gitHub' - It's not software on your computer.  It's not a command-line program.  It's Microsoft.  What?  Microsoft owns github.com and the services the site provides.  GitHub actually has a lot of little features but its main feature is that it can be a place where you can store your code and revisions online with the aid of git installed locally on our computer.  So not only can git track your files locally, git can be used to move your files and updates from your local machine to their website with a few keystrokes and we use this website for collaboration purposes and to control the workflow of multiple people working on the same text documents.  We can also make our work public or private.  In this bootcamp, gitHub will be the location where you will have your coding portfolio and the homeworks from the course make up the content of your portfolio.  Each homework will be stored in its own github repo.  You own and control this account forever - it is yours - hence why you had to make an account with github.com.  Your main interaction with this website is that you will be pulling documents from this online storage and you will be pushing content back into this online storage as updates.  Lastly, whenever we say go to your repo (aka repository) or say go to github, we are talking about you navigating to github.com and logging into your account.  

1.  'gitLab' - Similar to above, gitlab is an online interface that works similar to github but has a different interface and additional tools for managing projects.   We are using gitlab to store all of the bootcamp files.  The bootcamp owns this account and has full control over it.  This is why you had to receive an email invitation to gain access.  Students can only pull files from this online storage onto their computers; you are not able to push (aka add) files to it. I should also note that we are not using gitlab.com.  We have our own hosted gitlab space and you can get to it by going to https://nu.bootcampcontent.com/users/sign_in.  Whenever we say go to gitlab or go to the class repo (aka repository), we are talking about our version of gitlab. 

Lastly, the most common git procedures can be found in the class gitlab repo at the very bottom of the readme.  Just login to the class repo and scroll down until you see the GitLab and GitHub headings.  