# Slack Etiquette  

It is necessary that we develop good habits when using digital collaboration tools.  In this class we will be using Slack as our primary communication tool.  Slack and Teams are widely used especially in data and software groups.  In many cases a phone call is now used in cases of emergency, a text message is used as an urgent message, an email is an advance notice or non-urgent request, and a slack message can be used in different ways to result in different levels of urgency.    For example, in some companies, a slack channel could be setup for 'Outages' and any messages to this channel are immediately reviewed and the moderators contact triage teams to fix the issue.  You might also have a Slack channel that is just for your work group and messages here might have an expectation that someone in the group responds in 30 minutes or upon their return.  As you can probably tell, Slack is incredibly important for keeping workflow moving forward.  Slack can even have apps and automated processes built into the tool.  

Here are some tips to help you use Slack effectively.  I like to think of these as Slack Etiquette. 
1.  Use emoji's to show that you have read a message.  This lets the person who posted (who typically posts because they want people to read the post) know that it is being read.  You can use emojis to indicate if you like something like when a person posts a picture of their pet but the use of emojis that I am referring to is more so of a confirmation indicating that you understand.  I often use the check mark and people I work with know that I am saying 'noted and understood'.  In some situations you should only use the check mark icon to indicate that you actually completed a request from that post (the check mark icon means completed). 
1.  To get a specific person's attention when posting in a channel, use the `@username` at the beginning of a message.  So, in the `01-live` channel, you can get my attention by using `@Erin Wills` and then typing your question.  There are other special tags like `#xxxxx` links to a slack channel, `@here` sends a notification to all the currently online members of that particular channel, and `@channel` sends a notification to everyone in that channel whether currently online or not.  In this course, the instructional team will use `@here` and `@channel` but you probably will not - you will probably use `@username`.  At some companies `@here` is used to get an immediate answer from online members - similar to raising your hand at a meeting.      
1.  When you comment or ask a question related to an existing posted message, then I would suggest that you use the `Reply to Thread` option.  This puts your response nested directly under the post and this allows for an ongoing conversation to occur.  We do this because it keeps the channel much more uncluttered.  This is one of the etiquette tips that I really like if people abide by.  I find Slack not to be very easy to search especially if the messages are not grouped together.  
1.  If you need to emphasize something then you can use bold text ( \*\*Bolded text** ) or you can use boxed text (\`formatted text`) or you can use gray unformatted textbox ( \``` Unformatted Text ```).  
1.  Use appropriate language and use clear language.  Sometimes if I have a question then I will post the question like this:  `Question:  How do I ....`  or `Code Error:  Excel out of range error`.  After I post the basic question, I respond to my own message in the thread with more details.  I must apologize for writing long messages but I think I am justified because I am giving instructions for everyone in the class; at work my messages would be much shorter.
1.  In this class, we will use each of the channels for specific purposes so make sure you are posting to the right channel to reduce clutter and get the right people's attention.  Here are the different purposes of the channels:
    *  #01-live:  Used during class to get the attention of the instructional team and by the instructional team prior to class to provide prep work instructions.  
    *  #02-ask-the-class:  Used by students to troubleshoot and ask advice from the entire class.  This is helpful because your classmates might have experienced the same problem and they might be able to give advice.  Remember to reply to the messages in the `Reply to Thread`.  Students can provide suggestions, links, and code snippets.  Instructional team will often reply also but due to our jobs we might not be as speedy as your classmates.
    *  #03-resources:  this is a good place to post links to technical resources or the instructional team will post helpful details that we want to be kept available long term.  It is not to be used to post all content but really good resources.
    *  #general:  typically used by the SSM to post general course reminders, updates, and career resources
    *  #random:  the place where students post memes, pictures, comments, etc - just keep it work appropriate but this is where your personality can take center stage while the other channels are very purpose driven and need to be structured to be useable.  
    *  #study-groups:  If you would like to find out if other students want to do an online study session then this is the place to ask.  